---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
---

<img src="/assets/sourav_chakraborty.jpg" class="profile-picture" alt="Sourav Chakraborty profile picture" />


<p>Sourav Chakraborty is a Senior Staff Software Engineer at Samsung,
specializing in the architecture of high-performance communication runtimes for
cutting-edge supercomputer systems designed for HPC and AI workloads. With over
a decade of experience, Sourav has proven expertise in hardware-software
co-design, development of LLM-powered applications, and leading globally
distributed teams to deliver innovative software solutions. His work has
consistently focused on enhancing the performance and scalability of
large-scale systems, leveraging the latest advancements in CPUs, GPUs, and AI
infrastructure.</p>

<p>Previously, Sourav worked as an HPC Middleware Developer at NVIDIA, where he
spearheaded the development of offloaded collective frameworks for NVIDIA
BlueField DPUs and contributed to the strategic planning of NVIDIA's SmartNICs
software platform. He holds a PhD in Computer Science and Engineering from The
Ohio State University, where he conducted pioneering research on scalable
communication runtimes under the guidance of Prof. D. K. Panda. Sourav has more
than 25 peer-reviewed publications in international conferences and 2 patents.
He has also contributed to many open-source projects including UCX, MVAPICH2,
NCCL, RCCL, and SLURM. He earned his Bachelor's degree from Jadavpur University
and has also held key roles at AMD and Yahoo!.  Outside of his professional
pursuits, Sourav enjoys photography and hiking, blending his technical
expertise with a passion for capturing the beauty of the natural world.</p>

